
# node-sequential-ids

A [Node.js][nodejs] module that allows centralized generation of
sequential and human-readable ids.

**Sample Id:** `ACB - 00423`

|aspect|detail|
|-------|-----:|
|version|0.0.0-alpha.3.0|
|dependencies|none|
|last updated|29th Sept, 2014|

## installation

From [Npm][npmjs]:

```bash
$ npm install sequential-ids --save
```

## usage

```js
// assuming `db` is a variable holding a database connection with the
// method `.store(key, value)`

var sequential = require("sequential-ids");
var generator = new sequential.Generator({
  digits: 6, letters: 3,
  store: function(ids) {
    db.store("last-id", ids[ids.length - 1]);
  },
  restore: "AAB - 000"
});

var accessor = new sequential.Accessor();
accessor.next(function(id) {
  console.log("new id: %s", id);
});
```

## notes

1. **new Generator([options])**

    * you only require to create a single generator instance
    * **options** is an object having the following attributes:

        * `digits`:
            * no. of numbers to use in the ID.
            * numbers will be padded with zeros to satisfy this.
            * assigning `0` (zero) lets you ignore the number part
            * Defaults to `6`.
        * `letters`:
            * no. of letters to use.
            * assigning `0` (zero) lets you ignore the letters part
            * Defaults to `3`.
        * `store`:
            * a function that will be called to store the IDs on disk for persistence.
            * the function is passed an array of IDs that have been generated.
            * repeatedly storing the last id is useful to know where to start from in the next session.
            * Defaults to `null`.
        * `store_freq`:
            * frequency at which the store function should be called.
            * Defaults to `1`(called every 1 ID is generated)
        * `restore`:
            * last ID that was generated.
            * IDs will be generated from here on.
            * `digits` and `letters` will be ignored so as to follow the restore ID style.
            * it **must** be in the same style as IDs generated by the Generator
            * If not specified, generates from start.
            * **MUST** be a string.
            * Defaults to `null`.
        * `port`:
            * port at which the generator serves IDs.
            * Defaults to `9876`.

    * in a case where you may require more than one generator, you would allocate them to different ports. See ahead on how to target each of the different generators.

```js

var sequential = require("sequential-ids");
var generatorA = new sequential.Generator({port: 8998});
var generatorB = new sequential.Generator({port: 7667});

```


* **new Accessor([port])**

    * used to access ids.
    * **port** is the port number of your generator. In case where, you did not specify a port when creating a Generator instance, you may leave this out. Defaults to `9876`.
    * an accessor has the following methods:

        * `.next(callback)`:
            * requests generator for a new ID.
            * The new ID is passed to the callback.
        * `.session(callback)`:
            * passes to callback, the total number of IDs generated in the session.

    * All methods are **asynchronous**, the Node.js way


## TODO

* Robust Error handling
* Implement these features:
    * `.used(callback)` - passes the total number of IDs generated.
    * `.semantics(callback)` - passes the remaining no. of ids to be generated before breaking our semantics specified while creating the generator.


## license

Sequential Ids and its source code are licensed under the [MIT][mit] license. See *LICENSE* file accompanying this text.

Copyright (c) 2014 Forfuture LLC


[nodejs]:https://nodejs.org
[npmjs]:https://npmjs.org/sequential-ids
[mit]:https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
